extensions/timeseries/README.md, before:

# TimeSeries support

This module contains the time series model support extension with [GluonTS](https://github.com/awslabs/gluonts).

Right now, the package provides the `BaseTimeSeriesTranslator` and transform package that allows
you to do inference from your pre-trained time series model.

Now it contains:

- Translator for preprocess and postprocess data, and also includes the corresponding data transform modules.
- Components for building and training new probabilistic prediction models.
- Time series data loading and processing.
- A M5-forecast dataset.
- Two pre-trained model.
- A pre-built trainable model (DeepAR).

## Module structure

### Forecast

An abstract class representing the forecast result.

It contains the distribution of the results, the start date of the forecast, the frequency of the
time series, etc. User can get all these information by simply invoking the corresponding attribute.

- `SampleForecast` extends the `Forecast` that contain all the sample paths in the form of `NDArray`.
User can query the prediction results by accessing the data in the samples.

### TimeSeriesData

The data entry for managing timing data in preprocessing as an input to the transform method.
It contains a key-value pair list mapping from the time series name field to `NDArray`.

### dataset

- FieldName -- The name field for time series data including START, TARGET, and so on.

### timefeature

This module contains all the methods for generating time features from the predicted frequency.

- Lag -- Generates a list of lags that are appropriate for the frequency.
- TimeFeature -- Generates a list of time features that are appropriate for the frequency.

### transform

In general, it gets the `TimeSeriesData` and transform it to another `TimeSeriesData` that can
possibly contain more fields. It can be done by defining a set of of "actions" to the raw dataset
in training or just invoking at translator in inference.

This action usually create some additional features or transform an existing feature.

#### convert

- Convert -- Convert the array shape to the preprocessing. 
- VstackFeatures.java -- vstack the inputs name field of the `TimeSeriesData`. We make it implement
- the `TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

#### feature

- Feature -- Add time features to the preprocessing. 
- AddAgeFeature -- Creates the `FEAT_DYNAMIC_AGE` name field in the `TimeSeriesData`. Adds a
feature that its value is small for distant past timestamps and it monotonically increases
the more we approach the current timestamp. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform`
interface for **training feature.**
- AddObservedValueIndicator -- Creates the `OBSERVED_VALUES` name field in the `TimeSeriesData`.
Adds a feature that equals to 1 if the value is observed and 0 if the value is missing.
We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**
- AddTimeFeature -- Creates the `FEAT_TIME` name field in the `TimeSeriesData`. Adds a feature
that its value is based on the different prediction frequencies. We make it implement the
`TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

#### field

- Field -- Process key-value data entry to the preprocessing. It usually add or remove the
feature in the `TimeSeriesData`.
- RemoveFields -- Remove the input name field. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform`
interface for **training feature.**
- SelectField -- Only keep input name fields. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform`
interface for **training feature.**
- SetField -- Set the input name field with `NDArray`. We make it implement the
`TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

#### split

- Split -- Split time series data for training and inferring to the preprocessing.
- InstanceSplit -- Split time series data with the slice from `Sampler` for training and inferring
to the preprocessing. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

### InstanceSampler

Sample index for splitting based on training or inferring.

`PredictionSampler` extends `InstanceSampler` for the prediction including test and valid.
It would return the end of the time series bound as the dividing line between the future and past.

### translator

Existing time series model translators and corresponding factories. Now we have developed
`DeepARTranslator` and `TransformerTranslator` for users.

The following pseudocode demonstrates how to create a `DeepARTranslator` with `arguments`.

```java
	Map<String, Object> arguments = new ConcurrentHashMap<>();
	arguments.put("prediction_length", 28);
	arguments.put("use_feat_dynamic_real", false);
	DeepARTranslator.Builder builder = DeepARTranslator.builder(arguments);
	DeepARTranslator translator = builder.build();
```

If you want to customize your own time series model translator, you can easily use the transform
package for your data preprocess.

See [examples](src/test/java/ai/djl/timeseries/translator/DeepARTranslatorTest.java) for more details.

## Simple Example

To demonstrate how to use the timeseries package, we trained a DeepAR model on a simple dataset
and used it for prediction. This dataset contains monthly air passenger numbers from 1949 to 1960.
We will train on the first 9 years of data and predict the last 36 months of data.

### Define Data

In order to realize the preprocessing of time series data, we define the `TimeSeriesData` as the
input of the Translator, which is used to store the feature fields and perform corresponding
transformations.

Here we define how to get `TimeSeriesData` from the dataset.


```java
public static class AirPassengers {

    private Path path;
    private AirPassengerData data;

    public AirPassengers(Path path) {
        this.path = path;
        prepare();
    }

    public TimeSeriesData get(NDManager manager) {
        LocalDateTime start =
            data.start.toInstant().atZone(ZoneId.systemDefault()).toLocalDateTime();
        NDArray target = manager.create(data.target);
        TimeSeriesData ret = new TimeSeriesData(10);
        // A TimeSeriesData must contain start time and target value.
        ret.setStartTime(start);
        ret.setField(FieldName.TARGET, target);
        return ret;
    }

    /** prepare the file data */
    private void prepare() {
        Path filePath = path.resolve("test").resolve("data.json.gz");
        try {
            URL url = filePath.toUri().toURL();
            try (GZIPInputStream is = new GZIPInputStream(url.openStream())) {
                Reader reader = new InputStreamReader(is);
                data =
                    new GsonBuilder()
                    .setDateFormat("yyyy-MM")
                    .create()
                    .fromJson(reader, AirPassengerData.class);
            }
        } catch (IOException e) {
            throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid url: " + filePath, e);
        }
    }

    private static class AirPassengerData {
        Date start;
        float[] target;
    }
}
```

### Predict

In djl we need to define `Translator` to help us with data pre- and post-processing.

```java
public static float[] predict() throws IOException, TranslateException, ModelException {
    Map<String, Object> arguments = new ConcurrentHashMap<>();
    	// set parameter
        arguments.put("prediction_length", 12);
        arguments.put("freq", "M");
        arguments.put("use_" + FieldName.FEAT_DYNAMIC_REAL.name().toLowerCase(), false);
        arguments.put("use_" + FieldName.FEAT_STATIC_CAT.name().toLowerCase(), false);
        arguments.put("use_" + FieldName.FEAT_STATIC_REAL.name().toLowerCase(), false);

    	// build translator
        DeepARTranslator translator = DeepARTranslator.builder(arguments).build();

    	// create criteria
        Criteria<TimeSeriesData, Forecast> criteria =
                Criteria.builder()
                        .setTypes(TimeSeriesData.class, Forecast.class)
                        .optModelPath(Paths.get(modelUrl))
                        .optTranslator(translator)
                        .optProgress(new ProgressBar())
                        .build();

    	// load model
        try (ZooModel<TimeSeriesData, Forecast> model = criteria.loadModel();
                Predictor<TimeSeriesData, Forecast> predictor = model.newPredictor()) {
            NDManager manager = model.getNDManager();

            AirPassengers ap = new AirPassengers(Paths.get("Not implemented"));
            TimeSeriesData data = ap.get(manager);

            // prediction
            Forecast forecast = predictor.predict(data);

            return forecast.mean().toFloatArray();
        }
}

```
### Visualize

![simple_forecast](https://resources.djl.ai/images/timeseries/simple_forecast.png)

Note that the prediction results are displayed in the form of probability distributions, and the
shaded areas represent different prediction intervals.

Since djl doesn't support drawing yet, you can find our script for visualization
[here](https://gist.github.com/Carkham/a5162c9298bc51fec648a458a3437008).

The **full source code** for this example is available
[here](../../examples/src/main/java/ai/djl/examples/inference/timeseries/AirPassengersDeepAR.java)

## Documentation

The latest javadocs can be found on [here](https://javadoc.io/doc/ai.djl.timeseries/timeseries/latest/index.html).

You can also build the latest javadocs locally using the following command:

```sh
./gradlew javadoc
```

The javadocs output is built in the `build/doc/javadoc` folder.

## Installation

You can pull the module from the central Maven repository by including the following dependency in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ai.djl.timeseries</groupId>
    <artifactId>timeseries</artifactId>
    <version>0.21.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Commit message:

[timeseries] Adds timeseries examples document (#2411)
Co-authored-by: Frank Liu <frankfliu2000@gmail.com>

extensions/timeseries/README.md, after:

# TimeSeries support

This module contains the time series model support extension with [GluonTS](https://github.com/awslabs/gluonts).

Right now, the package provides the `BaseTimeSeriesTranslator` and transform package that allows
you to do inference from your pre-trained time series model.

Now it contains:

- Translator for preprocess and postprocess data, and also includes the corresponding data transform modules.
- Components for building and training new probabilistic prediction models.
- Time series data loading and processing.
- A M5-forecast dataset.
- Two pre-trained model.
- A pre-built trainable model (DeepAR).

The following examples are included for both training and inference:

- [Forecast with M5 data](docs/forecast_with_M5_data.md)

## Module structure

### Forecast

An abstract class representing the forecast result.

It contains the distribution of the results, the start date of the forecast, the frequency of the
time series, etc. User can get all these information by simply invoking the corresponding attribute.

- `SampleForecast` extends the `Forecast` that contain all the sample paths in the form of `NDArray`.
User can query the prediction results by accessing the data in the samples.

### TimeSeriesData

The data entry for managing timing data in preprocessing as an input to the transform method.
It contains a key-value pair list mapping from the time series name field to `NDArray`.

### dataset

- FieldName -- The name field for time series data including START, TARGET, and so on.

### timefeature

This module contains all the methods for generating time features from the predicted frequency.

- Lag -- Generates a list of lags that are appropriate for the frequency.
- TimeFeature -- Generates a list of time features that are appropriate for the frequency.

### transform

In general, it gets the `TimeSeriesData` and transform it to another `TimeSeriesData` that can
possibly contain more fields. It can be done by defining a set of of "actions" to the raw dataset
in training or just invoking at translator in inference.

This action usually create some additional features or transform an existing feature.

#### convert

- Convert -- Convert the array shape to the preprocessing. 
- VstackFeatures.java -- vstack the inputs name field of the `TimeSeriesData`. We make it implement
- the `TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

#### feature

- Feature -- Add time features to the preprocessing. 
- AddAgeFeature -- Creates the `FEAT_DYNAMIC_AGE` name field in the `TimeSeriesData`. Adds a
feature that its value is small for distant past timestamps and it monotonically increases
the more we approach the current timestamp. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform`
interface for **training feature.**
- AddObservedValueIndicator -- Creates the `OBSERVED_VALUES` name field in the `TimeSeriesData`.
Adds a feature that equals to 1 if the value is observed and 0 if the value is missing.
We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**
- AddTimeFeature -- Creates the `FEAT_TIME` name field in the `TimeSeriesData`. Adds a feature
that its value is based on the different prediction frequencies. We make it implement the
`TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

#### field

- Field -- Process key-value data entry to the preprocessing. It usually add or remove the
feature in the `TimeSeriesData`.
- RemoveFields -- Remove the input name field. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform`
interface for **training feature.**
- SelectField -- Only keep input name fields. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform`
interface for **training feature.**
- SetField -- Set the input name field with `NDArray`. We make it implement the
`TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

#### split

- Split -- Split time series data for training and inferring to the preprocessing.
- InstanceSplit -- Split time series data with the slice from `Sampler` for training and inferring
to the preprocessing. We make it implement the `TimeSeriesTransform` interface for **training feature.**

### InstanceSampler

Sample index for splitting based on training or inferring.

`PredictionSampler` extends `InstanceSampler` for the prediction including test and valid.
It would return the end of the time series bound as the dividing line between the future and past.

### translator

Existing time series model translators and corresponding factories. Now we have developed
`DeepARTranslator` and `TransformerTranslator` for users.

The following pseudocode demonstrates how to create a `DeepARTranslator` with `arguments`.

```java
	Map<String, Object> arguments = new ConcurrentHashMap<>();
	arguments.put("prediction_length", 28);
	arguments.put("use_feat_dynamic_real", false);
	DeepARTranslator.Builder builder = DeepARTranslator.builder(arguments);
	DeepARTranslator translator = builder.build();
```

If you want to customize your own time series model translator, you can easily use the transform
package for your data preprocess.

See [examples](src/test/java/ai/djl/timeseries/translator/DeepARTranslatorTest.java) for more details.

## Simple Example

To demonstrate how to use the timeseries package, we trained a DeepAR model on a simple dataset
and used it for prediction. This dataset contains monthly air passenger numbers from 1949 to 1960.
We will train on the first 9 years of data and predict the last 36 months of data.

### Define Data

In order to realize the preprocessing of time series data, we define the `TimeSeriesData` as the
input of the Translator, which is used to store the feature fields and perform corresponding
transformations.

Here we define how to get `TimeSeriesData` from the dataset.


```java
public static class AirPassengers {

    private Path path;
    private AirPassengerData data;

    public AirPassengers(Path path) {
        this.path = path;
        prepare();
    }

    public TimeSeriesData get(NDManager manager) {
        LocalDateTime start =
            data.start.toInstant().atZone(ZoneId.systemDefault()).toLocalDateTime();
        NDArray target = manager.create(data.target);
        TimeSeriesData ret = new TimeSeriesData(10);
        // A TimeSeriesData must contain start time and target value.
        ret.setStartTime(start);
        ret.setField(FieldName.TARGET, target);
        return ret;
    }

    /** prepare the file data */
    private void prepare() {
        Path filePath = path.resolve("test").resolve("data.json.gz");
        try {
            URL url = filePath.toUri().toURL();
            try (GZIPInputStream is = new GZIPInputStream(url.openStream())) {
                Reader reader = new InputStreamReader(is);
                data =
                    new GsonBuilder()
                    .setDateFormat("yyyy-MM")
                    .create()
                    .fromJson(reader, AirPassengerData.class);
            }
        } catch (IOException e) {
            throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid url: " + filePath, e);
        }
    }

    private static class AirPassengerData {
        Date start;
        float[] target;
    }
}
```

### Predict

In djl we need to define `Translator` to help us with data pre- and post-processing.

```java
public static float[] predict() throws IOException, TranslateException, ModelException {
    Map<String, Object> arguments = new ConcurrentHashMap<>();
    	// set parameter
        arguments.put("prediction_length", 12);
        arguments.put("freq", "M");
        arguments.put("use_" + FieldName.FEAT_DYNAMIC_REAL.name().toLowerCase(), false);
        arguments.put("use_" + FieldName.FEAT_STATIC_CAT.name().toLowerCase(), false);
        arguments.put("use_" + FieldName.FEAT_STATIC_REAL.name().toLowerCase(), false);

    	// build translator
        DeepARTranslator translator = DeepARTranslator.builder(arguments).build();

    	// create criteria
        Criteria<TimeSeriesData, Forecast> criteria =
                Criteria.builder()
                        .setTypes(TimeSeriesData.class, Forecast.class)
                        .optModelPath(Paths.get(modelUrl))
                        .optTranslator(translator)
                        .optProgress(new ProgressBar())
                        .build();

    	// load model
        try (ZooModel<TimeSeriesData, Forecast> model = criteria.loadModel();
                Predictor<TimeSeriesData, Forecast> predictor = model.newPredictor()) {
            NDManager manager = model.getNDManager();

            AirPassengers ap = new AirPassengers(Paths.get("Not implemented"));
            TimeSeriesData data = ap.get(manager);

            // prediction
            Forecast forecast = predictor.predict(data);

            return forecast.mean().toFloatArray();
        }
}

```
### Visualize

![simple_forecast](https://resources.djl.ai/images/timeseries/simple_forecast.png)

Note that the prediction results are displayed in the form of probability distributions, and the
shaded areas represent different prediction intervals.

Since djl doesn't support drawing yet, you can find our script for visualization
[here](https://gist.github.com/Carkham/a5162c9298bc51fec648a458a3437008).

The **full source code** for this example is available
[here](../../examples/src/main/java/ai/djl/examples/inference/timeseries/AirPassengersDeepAR.java)

## Documentation

The latest javadocs can be found on [here](https://javadoc.io/doc/ai.djl.timeseries/timeseries/latest/index.html).

You can also build the latest javadocs locally using the following command:

```sh
./gradlew javadoc
```

The javadocs output is built in the `build/doc/javadoc` folder.

## Installation

You can pull the module from the central Maven repository by including the following dependency in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ai.djl.timeseries</groupId>
    <artifactId>timeseries</artifactId>
    <version>0.21.0</version>
</dependency>
```
