basicdataset/README.md, before:

# DJL - Basic Dataset

## Overview

This module contains a number of basic and standard datasets in the Deep Java Library's (DJL). These datasets are used to train deep learning models.

## List of datasets

This module contains the following datasets:

- [MNIST](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/) - A handwritten digits dataset
- [CIFAR10](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~kriz/cifar.html) - A dataset consisting of 60,000 32x32 color images in 10 classes
- [Coco](http://cocodataset.org) - A large-scale object detection, segmentation, and captioning dataset that contains 1.5 million object instances
    - You have to manually add `com.twelvemonkeys.imageio:imageio-jpeg:3.5` dependency to your project
- [ImageNet](http://www.image-net.org/) - An image database organized according to the WordNet hierarchy
  >**Note**: You have to manually download the ImageNet dataset due to licensing requirements.
- [Pikachu](http://d2l.ai/chapter_computer-vision/object-detection-dataset.html) - 1000 Pikachu images of different angles and sizes created using an open source 3D Pikachu model

## Documentation

The latest javadocs can be found on the [djl.ai website](https://javadoc.io/doc/ai.djl/basicdataset/latest/index.html).

You can also build the latest javadocs locally using the following command:

```sh
# for Linux/macOS:
./gradlew javadoc

# for Windows:
..\gradlew javadoc
```
The javadocs output is built in the build/doc/javadoc folder.


## Installation
You can pull the module from the central Maven repository by including the following dependency in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ai.djl</groupId>
    <artifactId>basicdataset</artifactId>
    <version>0.17.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Some datasets(e.g. COCO) contains non-standard image files. OpenJDK may fail to load these images.
twelvemonkeys ImageIO plugins provide a wide range of image format support. If you need to load
images that not supported by default JDK, you can consider add the following dependencies into your project:

```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.twelvemonkeys.imageio</groupId>
        <artifactId>imageio-jpeg</artifactId>
        <version>3.5</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.twelvemonkeys.imageio</groupId>
        <artifactId>imageio-bmp</artifactId>
        <version>3.5</version>
    </dependency>
    ...
```

Commit message:

Update the Dataset documentation
This makes a number of updates to the dataset documentation. It moves the list
of datasets to the main guide which is more accessible that basicdataset's README
and could contain future datasets not in basic dataset.

It also updates the list of built-in datasets and adds a list of dataset
helpers. It improves the page for creating a custom dataset. Finally, there are
a few other miscellaneous doc improvements.

basicdataset/README.md, after:

# DJL - Basic Dataset

## Overview

This module contains a number of basic and standard datasets in the Deep Java Library's (DJL). These datasets are used to train deep learning models.

You can find the datasets provided by this module on our [docs](http://docs.djl.ai/docs/dataset.html).

## Documentation

The latest javadocs can be found on the [djl.ai website](https://javadoc.io/doc/ai.djl/basicdataset/latest/index.html).

You can also build the latest javadocs locally using the following command:

```sh
# for Linux/macOS:
./gradlew javadoc

# for Windows:
..\gradlew javadoc
```
The javadocs output is built in the build/doc/javadoc folder.


## Installation
You can pull the module from the central Maven repository by including the following dependency in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ai.djl</groupId>
    <artifactId>basicdataset</artifactId>
    <version>0.17.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Some datasets(e.g. COCO) contains non-standard image files. OpenJDK may fail to load these images.
twelvemonkeys ImageIO plugins provide a wide range of image format support. If you need to load
images that not supported by default JDK, you can consider add the following dependencies into your project:

```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.twelvemonkeys.imageio</groupId>
        <artifactId>imageio-jpeg</artifactId>
        <version>3.5</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.twelvemonkeys.imageio</groupId>
        <artifactId>imageio-bmp</artifactId>
        <version>3.5</version>
    </dependency>
    ...
```
